CP476 Project: StudentSaver Webstore
Hayden Jeanson - 170482540
Rob Fedorowicz - 170783690
Patrick Mandarino - 181466560
2021-03-22
Introduction
The price of textbooks is a huge barrier for students pursuing a post-secondary education. Our store will allow students to acquire used textbooks online in a simple and cheap fashion. College and university textbooks will be sold to students at a lower rate than traditional bookstores and other online retailers. 
Customers will be able to browse for textbooks by course category (math, english, science, etc.). For customers who know what they want, the catalogue can also be searched by title, author, or publication date. 
Problem solving and algorithms

Problem
Solution
Storing indexable information on textbooks
A MongoDB database collection with information on the books and stock levels.
Creating a checkout experience
Form with text fields to collect shipping and credit card information. The site will validate that it is all entered. No payments are actually processed for this course project.
Shopping cart
Each shopping cart will be tied to a user’s account. The account collection in MongoDB will have an array field that stores ids of products in their cart and their quantities.
Account management
Another MongoDB database collection to store the customers usernames and passwords, along with their current shopping cart items
Front-end catalogue
HTML, CSS, and Javascript will be used to render the front-end catalogue.

System Design

Our web application will be made up of three layers:
HTML, CSS, and Javascript for front-end
PHP server/backend
MongoDB database layer

The following diagram illustrates the relationship between the multiple layers:




For the Database layer, the makeup of the structure of the MongoDB database is shown below:

The following is the general flow of how a user would interact with our website:
Upon arriving at the website, the user would first register for an account, hence adding their information to the database, specifically the User collection.
From there, they can browse through our inventory of textbooks, either by category, or they can search by title, author, etc.
The user will add the books they want to their cart. The current state of a user’s cart is stored in their entry in the database, along with their personal information.
When they are ready to checkout, they will click on a “checkout” button and proceed through the checkout process.
They will fill out their billing and shipping information, and place their order.
Milestones & schedule

Task ID
Description
Due date
Lead
1
Project research & team up
Day 5 of week 9
All
2
Project proposal
Day 1 of week 10
Patrick
3
Database set up and working
Day 7 of week 10
Patrick
4
Back end PHP CGI completed and working
Day 5 of week 11
Hayden
5
Front end HTML CSS working
Day 2 of week 12
Rob
6
Project demonstration
Day 5 of week 12
All
7
Project submission
Day 5 of week 13
Patrick

References
Our inspiration - https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2019/3/6/18252322/college-textbooks-cost-expensive-pearson-cengage-mcgraw-hill

